---
title: Insert title here
key: 5f666a31b07096bba1361bf3c7dfcd04

---
## Volatility in Black-Scholes Formula

```yaml
type: "TitleSlide"
key: "01226dcd20"
```

`@lower_third`

name: Cyrus Rustomji
title: Instructor at DataCamp


`@script`
Welcome back everyone.
The last couple of exercises showed you how American and European call options work - by understanding the Black-Scholes formula.
You understood many factors that go into these options which are the stock and exercise price, along with the risk-free interest rate, time to expiration, and now volatility relating to this formula.


---
## What is implied volatility?

```yaml
type: "TwoColumns"
key: "7b116f68ab"
center_content: true
disable_transition: true
```

`@part1`
When does the implied volatility increase? {{1}}


When does the implied volatility decrease?{{3}}


`@part2`
When the market is bearish. {{2}}


When the market is bullish. {{4}}


`@script`
Implied volatility is the estimated volatility of a security’s price and is most commonly used with pricing options.
In general, implied volatility increases while the market is bearish, when investors believe the asset’s price will decline over time, and decreases when the market is bullish, when investors believe that the price will rise over time. 

Implied volatility is a way of estimating the future fluctuations of a security’s worth based on certain predictive factors. (Show arrows with increasing volatility and markets being bullish or bearish)


---
## How does the implied volatility affect the call option?

```yaml
type: "FullSlide"
key: "c500f1421d"
```

`@part1`
```
from math import exp
S = 100 #stock price
K = 75 #strike price
r = 0.05 #risk-free interest rate
T = 1 #time to expiration (in years)
d1 = 0.6 #implied volatility
d2 = 0.5 #implied volatility

print(S*(d1) - (K*exp(-r*T)*(d2)))
``` {{1}}

```
#answer = 24.3
``` {{2}}

This shows that we have to exercise the option at 99.3. {{3}}


`@script`
The implied volatility affects the call option in a different way because d1 will always be larger than d2.
This is true because you want to see the difference in the stock vs. the strike price difference.

We have made the implied volatility 0.1 high for the stock price.
This affects when you need to exercise the option now.
Instead of exercising it at 75, we need to exercise it now at 99.3.


---
## What happens when the implied volatility is the same for the stock and the strike price?

```yaml
type: "FullSlide"
key: "c2d0a13555"
```

`@part1`
The implied volatility is 0.5 for both stock and strike price now. {{1}}

```
from math import exp
S = 100 #stock price
K = 75 #strike price
r = 0.05 #risk-free interest rate
T = 1 #time to expiration (in years)
d1 = 0.5 #implied volatility
d2 = 0.5 #implied volatility

print(S*(d1) - (K*exp(-r*T)*(d2)))
``` {{2}}

```
#answer = 14.3
``` {{3}}


`@script`
The implied volatility is 0.5 for both the stock and strike price.

The implied volatility is now the same for d1 and d2.
So now instead of comparing, we will see how this will affect the exercise price.
The exercise price lowered from 24.3 to 14.3.
With a lower adjusted stock price, this affects the lower exercise price and thus telling us to exercise the call option at 89.3 instead of 99.3.


---
## Let's practice!

```yaml
type: "FinalSlide"
key: "7aabf1fa3e"
```

`@script`
Now let's practice and understand the implied volatility behind the formula a little more with this next exercise!

